# A/B test on real data
An A/B test carried out as part of a recruiment process
-------------------------------------------------------

This analysis was carried out as part of the recruitment process at one company. The following instructions were given (reworded):

The company X offers its product online and is considering offering a free trial subscription plan which it does not offer now. To evaluate the effect of the free trial subscription the company ran an A/B test on a sample of users. 50% of them were offered the existing payment plans, and the other 50% were offered the new free trial option on top of that. Choosing the free trial option means that the user can use the product for 7 days free of charge, after which he/she will become a paying user automatically if he/she doesn't cancel the subscription explicitly. The user who chose free trial can also explicitly purchase a paid plan during the 7-day trial period and also become a paying user. The task was to conclude if the test could be considered successful, i.e. if the free trial option makes sense from the business point of view and should be offered to all users. An addtional task was to provide any other insights that can help make an informed decision.

The data that were available: 3 tables (information on users, information on purchases over the test period, information on the assigment of the users to the treatment and the control groups). All these data are read in full in the course of the analysis, no available data was left unused. The provided datasets were fully anonymised and contained no personal data. I recoded the user IDs for even better anonymity.

I received feedback with which I could not agree. I am providing it here along with my responses to it. The feedback consisted of 2 points:

- The analysis was too long, could be more focused on relevant points. 

I agree that the analysis is rather detailed and the document is quite long, however a notebook is not a presentation. It is also a fundamental principle of data analysis to carry out some exploratory analysis when starting to work with an unfamiliar dataset. More importantly, such exploratory analysis actually revealed quite a lot of surprising properties and even some **outright inconsistencies** in the data, some of which can **question** the design of the whole test. These properties and inconsistencies (as repeatedly stated in the text) had to be discussed with the business team if it were a real business situation. Since it was a recruitment test, I had to make assumptions and go on. The revealed inconsistencies were left without any feedback.

- Additional aspects that could have been considered are e.g. that 6-month plan purchases with free trial could cannibalise 12m plan purchases and therefore decrease average LTV over time. 

It is not clear why such effects should be accounted for separately in any way. There indeed may be users who chose the free trial option and got automatically subscribed to the 6-month plan, who, however, would have chosen a 12-month plan in the absence of the free trial option. But this effect (let's call it negative) is part of the overall (positive) effect as demonstrated by the test. If we consider the treatment and the control group comparable and equally representative, we can also treat them as one and the same group of users exposed to different conditions. And even if some users would switch to cheaper options in the presence of the free trial, many more who wouldn't have bought it in the absence of the free trial would try and buy it eventually so that the average revenue per user would be higher.
I would also be very cautious when talking about LTV in our situation. Given the data that we have, no meaningful LTV estimation is possible for any of the user. And by comparing only the revenues for one (i.e. only the first) subscription period, we are in fact considering an extreme case, in which the LTV horizon corresponds to one subscription period and the relative difference between them in two scenarios is the highest. Since even in this extreme case the overall effect of the free trial option is positive, we can treat it as the ultimate argument in its favour. After the positive effect materialised itself on one user cohort, we can expect the same from a new user cohort (which should also generate a higher revenue per user having access to the free trial option even if its LTV horizon also corresponds to one subscription period). Additional accounting for cannibalisation doesn't seem to make sense.
